<<<<<<< HEAD

The maintenance of biodiversity in competitive ecosystems is a central idea in ecology. Among others, the modern theory of coexistence seeks to assess and quantify the mechanisms that result in coexisting species and thus the maintenance of biodiversity. 
Many are familiar with the principle of competitive exclusion - an idea which postulates if species within the same trophic level and similar niches exist, one will eventually outcompete the other (Hardin 1960). Modern coexistence theory provides a quantitative breakdown of contributing mechanisms as criteria for coexistence and competitive exclusion (Chesson 1994).    

Equally central to ecology is the study of relationships between ecological variables; however, it is almost exclusively blanketed by simple measures of associativity. Recent work has shown that tail associations, or associations between the tail ends of data, and specifically the asymmetry between tail associations have important considerations for ecological phenomena; although, to our knowledge, the consequences/implications of asymmetric tail associations for competition and coexistence have not yet been investigated. 
Correlation measures such as Pearson or Spearman correlation disguise the asymmetry of tail associations, and datasets with different tail associations can have the same correlation coefficient (see Figure). Asymmetry in tail associations describes tighter correlations in regions of a dataset compared to other regions of the dataset. A simple example of asymmetric tail associations is a dataset which is more correlated in the lower (upper) half than the upper (lower) half, described as left (right) tail associated. Current research has shown that ATAs have important considerations for extinction risks, “skewness of spatial averages”, Taylor’s Law, Moran Effect/ spatial synchrony (Gosh et al 2020 Ecosphere, Gosh et al 2020 And. EcoRes,). Despite the existence of tail associations within ecological data, to our knowledge, the implications of tail associations for competition and coexistence has not yet been examined; doing so is the main goal of this paper. 

Asymmetries in tail associations have the potential to influence competition and coexistence via one particular mechanism, namely, storage effects. Covariation between environmental fluctuations and competitive pressures allows for storage effect to be a contributing stabalizing mechanism to coexistence. Because the contributive value of storage effects relies on the association of competition and environment (Chesson 1994, Barbaras ..), it is reasonable to suspect the contribution of storage effects to coexistence can be altered by an association between competition and environment that is asymmetric. While we aimed to investigate the importance of ATAs on coexistence in general and all the mechanisms which compose the modern theory of coesustence, it was quickly revealed that ATAs are specifically important for storage effects and not for other mechanisms on coexistence (due to the fact that storage effect is the only mechanism that depends of the variance between two drivers). 

paragraph to inuitively explain storage effects
We emphasize that although this paper focuses on storage effects, it is still a paper generally about the importance of asymmetrical tail associations for coexistence because we do consider whether they are important for other mechanisms of modern coexistence theory, though we quickly realize their importance is solely for storage effects 

[As we know], anthropogenic climate change has large consequences for almost all aspects of life including via extreme climatic events, which have only become more extreme - increasing in magnitude and frequency - and have contributed to the increase in global means as well as an increase in environmental variability. While there are multiple studies on the influence of environmental extremes and varaibility on competition and coexistence (Parepa et al 2013, Diez et al 2012), the influence of relationships and interactions between drivers in their extremes, has not yet been explored. By definition, interacting environmental drivers that are  moreso related in the extreme values are tail associated, thus we have implemented our tools for the study of tail associations to explore the importance of environmental relationships in their exrtemes on competition and coexistence. Environmental variability has been classically shown to promote coexistence via storage mechanisms (Chesson and Warner 1981, Warner and Chesson 1985), hence we continue/move forward with this simple model to examine the effect of extreme relationships between environmental variables on the contribution of storage effects to coexistence.   

The lottery model within the framework of coexistence theory provides a suitable opportunity to explore extreme relationships and the consequences to coexistence. 

Results main ideas + example

introduce new decomposition

final parahraph:goals
%Jasmin, I think the below makes a pretty good start at tryinbg to nail down a good way to express our goals
%in the last para of the Intro, so please incorporate these into your last para. If you have a better way
%to phrase these, please put both so we can compare at some point when we meet.
G1) To augment the modern theory of coexistence (MTC) to show how asymmetric tail association (ATA)
plays a role. The MTC decomposes a measure of coexistence into components due to each of several mechanisms. 
We address how ATA contributes to these components. We here examine mechanisms of coexistence that apply in 
models exhibiting solely temporal variation; spatial variation can be considered in future work.
=======